.TH OPENCC 1 "" "OPENCC" "Open Chinese Convert"
.SH NAME
opencc \- Open Chinese Convert
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opencc
[--noflush <bool>] [-i <file>] [-o <file>] [-c <file>] [--] [--version] [-h]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B OpenCC
is an opensource project for conversions between Traditional Chinese, Simplified Chinese and Japanese Kanji (Shinjitai).
It supports character-level and phrase-level conversion, character variant conversion and regional idioms among Mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
This is not translation tool between Mandarin and Cantonese, etc.
.PP
.B OpenCC\fR works in interactive and non-interactive mode. To exit from interactive mode press Ctrl+D.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --noflush <bool>
Disable flush for every line.
.
.TP
.B -i <file>,  --input <file>
Read original text from <file>.
.
.TP
.B -o <file>,  --output <file>
Write converted text to <file>.
.
.TP
.B -c <file>,  --config <file>
Configuration file.
.
.TP
.B --,  --ignore_rest
Ignores the rest of the labeled arguments following this flag.
.
.TP
.B --version
Displays version information and exits.
.
.TP
.B -h,  --help
Displays usage information and exits.
.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.TP
s2t.json
Simplified Chinese to Traditional Chinese
.
.TP
t2s.json
Traditional Chinese to Simplified Chinese
.
.TP
s2tw.json
Simplified Chinese to Traditional Chinese (Taiwan Standard)
.
.TP
tw2s.json
Traditional Chinese (Taiwan Standard) to Simplified Chinese
.
.TP
s2hk.json
Simplified Chinese to Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong variant)
.
.TP
hk2s.json
Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong variant) to Simplified Chinese
.
.TP
s2twp.json
Simplified Chinese to Traditional Chinese (Taiwan Standard) with Taiwanese idiom
.
.TP
tw2sp.json
Traditional Chinese (Taiwan Standard) to Simplified Chinese with Mainland Chinese idiom
.
.TP
t2tw.json
Traditional Chinese (OpenCC Standard) to Taiwan Standard
.
.TP
hk2t.json
Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong variant) to Traditional Chinese
.
.TP
t2hk.json
Traditional Chinese (OpenCC Standard) to Hong Kong variant
.
.TP
t2jp.json
Traditional Chinese Characters (Kyūjitai) to New Japanese Kanji (Shinjitai)
.
.TP
jp2t.json
New Japanese Kanji (Shinjitai) to Traditional Chinese Characters (Kyūjitai)
.
.TP
tw2t.json
Traditional Chinese (Taiwan standard) to Traditional Chinese
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Convert input.txt from Simplified Chinese to Traditional Chinese (Taiwan Standard) with Taiwanese idiom and write the result to output.txt:
.IP
opencc -i input.txt -o output.txt -c s2twp
.
.SH SEE ALSO
opencc_dict(1), opencc_phrase_extract(1)
.PP
More information about the OpenCC project and reporting bugs can be found at https://github.com/BYVoid/OpenCC.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Carbo Kuo <byvoid@byvoid.com>
